README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="" rel="noopener">
 <img src="./resources/icon.png" alt="Project logo"></a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">fitbit-lc-me-pacing</h3>

<div align="center">

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success.svg)]()
[![GitHub Issues](https://badgen.net/badge/issues/4%20open/yellow?icon=yellow)](https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App/issues)
[![GitHub Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/kylelobo/The-Documentation-Compendium.svg)](https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App/pulls)
<!-- [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE) -->

</div>

---

<p align="center"> Fitbit clockface application to help people with Long Covid or ME (Myalgic Encephalomyelitis) pace according to their Anaerobic Threshold (AT). 
    <br> 
</p>

## 📝 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Supported Devices](#supported_devices)
- [Getting Started](#getting_started)
- [Running Tests](#tests)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Built Using](#built_using)
- [TODO](./TODO.md)
- [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgement)

## 🧐 About <a name = "about"></a>

The LC ME Pacing application plays an alert when the user reaches the target heart rate for Anaerobic Threshold (AT). By default, the alert is set to follow the WorkWell Foundation's guidelines of resting heart rate (RHR) plus 15 beats. Users may choose from various options for AT based on their pacing needs.

Features Supported:
- Set Anaerobic Threshold Formula
  - 50% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - 55% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - 60% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - Workwell Foundation: Resting Heart Rate (RHR) + 15 beats
  - Custom User Defined
- Set Alert Interval
  - from 0 seconds to 300 seconds
- Set Alert Type
  - alert
  - bump
  - confirmation
  - confirmation-max
  - nudge
  - nudge-max
  - ping
  - ring
- Set Background Color Mode for HR Zone
  - Solid Color
  - Gradient Color
- AT Stats Page (tap to toggle)
  - Time Above AT: cumulative time spent above anaerobic threshold
  - Recovery Timer: time elapsed since heart rate dropped back below AT

## ⌚ Supported Devices <a name = "supported_devices"></a>
- Fitbit Versa 3
- Fitbit Sense 2

## 🏁 Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

Before you get started, you'll need the following prerequisites to develop apps or clock faces with the Fitbit SDK:

- Fitbit user account. [Sign up here.](https://www.fitbit.com/signup)
- A Fitbit OS device, or the Fitbit OS Simulator for [Windows](https://simulator-updates.fitbit.com/download/stable/win) or [macOS](https://simulator-updates.fitbit.com/download/stable/mac).
- The latest Fitbit mobile application for [Android](http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fitbit.FitbitMobile) or [iOS](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/fitbit-activity-calorie-tracker/id462638897?mt=8&uo=4), paired with your Fitbit OS smartwatch.
- A Windows or Mac computer.
- A wireless network to provide the Fitbit device a connection to the internet.


These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See [deployment](#deployment) for notes on how to deploy the project on a live Fitbit system.
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App.git
# Go into the project directory
cd fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App

```


### Prerequisites

All you need to get started is [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 18 on macOS, Windows or Linux.

>Node.js version 18 is recommended. You can install [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating) to easily switch versions of Node.js

```
nvm install 18
nvm alias default 18

# verify the correct version of Node is installed
node --version
v18.0.0
```


### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you how to get a development env running.

Install development dependencies

```
npm install
```
If you are using your Fitbit device, ensure that *Developer Bridge* is enabled and connected. If you are using Fitbit OS Simulator, ensure that it is launched and connected. 

Once you've added the dependencies and connected to a device, you can build and install the project

```
npx fitbit-build
npx fitbit
fitbit$ build
```

You can run the single command `build-and-install` or `bi` for short.
```
fitbit$ bi
```


## 🔧 Running the tests <a name = "tests"></a>

Explain how to run the automated tests for this system.

<!-- https://github.com/ihassin/fitbit-coachusa -->

<!-- ### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
``` -->

### Coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
npm run test
npm run lint
```

## 🎈 Usage <a name="usage"></a>

While wearing the Fitbit watch, run the **LC ME Pacing** application. When the alert goes off for reaching the Anaerobic Threshold (AT), *Stop, Rest, & Pace*.


## 🚀 Deployment <a name = "deployment"></a>

In order to gain access to the developer functionality, you must first login to[ Gallery Admin](https://gam.fitbit.com/), and accept the [Fitbit Platform Terms of Service](https://dev.fitbit.com/legal/platform-terms-of-service/).

After accepting the platform terms of service, you should be able to access the Developer menu within the Fitbit mobile app **(Your device > Developer)**, and the Developer Bridge menu on your device **(Settings > Developer Bridge)**.

To deploy on a live Fitbit watch, ensure the Development Bridge is connected, then build and install the application on the Fitbit command line
```
npx fitbit
fitbit$ connect-phone
fitbit$ bi
```



## ⛏️ Built Using <a name = "built_using"></a>

- [Fitbit OS SDK](https://dev.fitbit.com/) - Software Development Kit
- [Fitbit SDK-CLI](https://dev.fitbit.com/build/guides/command-line-interface/) - Command Line Interface
- [ReactJs](https://react.dev/) - Web Framework for Settings
- [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/) - Server Environment

## ✍️ Authors <a name = "authors"></a>

- [@TickedOffCodess](https://github.com/TickedOffCodess) - Idea & Work
See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/kylelobo/The-Documentation-Compendium/contributors) who participated in this project.

## 🎉 Acknowledgements <a name = "acknowledgement"></a>

- [HRM4Pacing](https://www.facebook.com/HRM4Pacing) group members: Thank you for the support and invaluable feedback.
- Hat tip to anyone whose code was used
- Inspiration
- References:
  - https://github.com/Fitbit/sdk-moment
  - Battery Images: https://github.com/cgguardian/circles

Commit message:

Document mute/snooze alert button feature in README
https://claude.ai/code/session_0114LiuXsBZxDRYLU5yZaAGw

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="" rel="noopener">
 <img src="./resources/icon.png" alt="Project logo"></a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">fitbit-lc-me-pacing</h3>

<div align="center">

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success.svg)]()
[![GitHub Issues](https://badgen.net/badge/issues/4%20open/yellow?icon=yellow)](https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App/issues)
[![GitHub Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/kylelobo/The-Documentation-Compendium.svg)](https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App/pulls)
<!-- [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE) -->

</div>

---

<p align="center"> Fitbit clockface application to help people with Long Covid or ME (Myalgic Encephalomyelitis) pace according to their Anaerobic Threshold (AT). 
    <br> 
</p>

## 📝 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Supported Devices](#supported_devices)
- [Getting Started](#getting_started)
- [Running Tests](#tests)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Built Using](#built_using)
- [TODO](./TODO.md)
- [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgement)

## 🧐 About <a name = "about"></a>

The LC ME Pacing application plays an alert when the user reaches the target heart rate for Anaerobic Threshold (AT). By default, the alert is set to follow the WorkWell Foundation's guidelines of resting heart rate (RHR) plus 15 beats. Users may choose from various options for AT based on their pacing needs.

Features Supported:
- Set Anaerobic Threshold Formula
  - 50% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - 55% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - 60% of Maximum Heart Rate (MHR)
  - Workwell Foundation: Resting Heart Rate (RHR) + 15 beats
  - Custom User Defined
- Set Alert Interval
  - from 0 seconds to 300 seconds
- Set Alert Type
  - alert
  - bump
  - confirmation
  - confirmation-max
  - nudge
  - nudge-max
  - ping
  - ring
- Set Background Color Mode for HR Zone
  - Solid Color
  - Gradient Color
- Mute/Snooze Alerts (hardware button)
  - Press the physical back button to silence vibration alerts for 5 minutes
  - Useful when temporarily elevated and aware of it
  - A "MUTE Xm" indicator is shown on the watch face with the remaining minutes
  - Pressing again resets the 5-minute timer
- AT Stats Page (tap to toggle)
  - Time Above AT: cumulative time spent above anaerobic threshold
  - Recovery Timer: time elapsed since heart rate dropped back below AT

## ⌚ Supported Devices <a name = "supported_devices"></a>
- Fitbit Versa 3
- Fitbit Sense 2

## 🏁 Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

Before you get started, you'll need the following prerequisites to develop apps or clock faces with the Fitbit SDK:

- Fitbit user account. [Sign up here.](https://www.fitbit.com/signup)
- A Fitbit OS device, or the Fitbit OS Simulator for [Windows](https://simulator-updates.fitbit.com/download/stable/win) or [macOS](https://simulator-updates.fitbit.com/download/stable/mac).
- The latest Fitbit mobile application for [Android](http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fitbit.FitbitMobile) or [iOS](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/fitbit-activity-calorie-tracker/id462638897?mt=8&uo=4), paired with your Fitbit OS smartwatch.
- A Windows or Mac computer.
- A wireless network to provide the Fitbit device a connection to the internet.


These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See [deployment](#deployment) for notes on how to deploy the project on a live Fitbit system.
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Ticked-Off-Development/fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App.git
# Go into the project directory
cd fitbit-LC-ME-Pacing-App

```


### Prerequisites

All you need to get started is [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 18 on macOS, Windows or Linux.

>Node.js version 18 is recommended. You can install [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating) to easily switch versions of Node.js

```
nvm install 18
nvm alias default 18

# verify the correct version of Node is installed
node --version
v18.0.0
```


### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you how to get a development env running.

Install development dependencies

```
npm install
```
If you are using your Fitbit device, ensure that *Developer Bridge* is enabled and connected. If you are using Fitbit OS Simulator, ensure that it is launched and connected. 

Once you've added the dependencies and connected to a device, you can build and install the project

```
npx fitbit-build
npx fitbit
fitbit$ build
```

You can run the single command `build-and-install` or `bi` for short.
```
fitbit$ bi
```


## 🔧 Running the tests <a name = "tests"></a>

Explain how to run the automated tests for this system.

<!-- https://github.com/ihassin/fitbit-coachusa -->

<!-- ### Break down into end to end tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
Give an example
``` -->

### Coding style tests

Explain what these tests test and why

```
npm run test
npm run lint
```

## 🎈 Usage <a name="usage"></a>

While wearing the Fitbit watch, run the **LC ME Pacing** application. When the alert goes off for reaching the Anaerobic Threshold (AT), *Stop, Rest, & Pace*.


## 🚀 Deployment <a name = "deployment"></a>

In order to gain access to the developer functionality, you must first login to[ Gallery Admin](https://gam.fitbit.com/), and accept the [Fitbit Platform Terms of Service](https://dev.fitbit.com/legal/platform-terms-of-service/).

After accepting the platform terms of service, you should be able to access the Developer menu within the Fitbit mobile app **(Your device > Developer)**, and the Developer Bridge menu on your device **(Settings > Developer Bridge)**.

To deploy on a live Fitbit watch, ensure the Development Bridge is connected, then build and install the application on the Fitbit command line
```
npx fitbit
fitbit$ connect-phone
fitbit$ bi
```



## ⛏️ Built Using <a name = "built_using"></a>

- [Fitbit OS SDK](https://dev.fitbit.com/) - Software Development Kit
- [Fitbit SDK-CLI](https://dev.fitbit.com/build/guides/command-line-interface/) - Command Line Interface
- [ReactJs](https://react.dev/) - Web Framework for Settings
- [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/) - Server Environment

## ✍️ Authors <a name = "authors"></a>

- [@TickedOffCodess](https://github.com/TickedOffCodess) - Idea & Work
See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/kylelobo/The-Documentation-Compendium/contributors) who participated in this project.

## 🎉 Acknowledgements <a name = "acknowledgement"></a>

- [HRM4Pacing](https://www.facebook.com/HRM4Pacing) group members: Thank you for the support and invaluable feedback.
- Hat tip to anyone whose code was used
- Inspiration
- References:
  - https://github.com/Fitbit/sdk-moment
  - Battery Images: https://github.com/cgguardian/circles
